What if we don't wanna
fetch isomorphic li we want
this always to happen on the server?
And for that reason we came up something
we like to call server functions.
And server functions,
denoted by this dollar sign cuz they're
kind of like a compiler trick, or
our ability to basically make RPC calls,
anywhere that's remote procedure calls.
So we can do something
like pretend like a hello,
let's say, and we can go wrap a function,
an a sync function here like this,
and this code
Will only run on the server.
What I mean by that is,
I could take this hello here, and
let's say, call it inside our route data.
And we see hello from the server, and
if we look at our client app when
we refresh our page, essentially
We're not actually gonna see it here,
okay?
Beautiful, okay?
Now, what's really cool about this though,
is pretend we actually
wanna parameterize it.
We wanna add some arguments here,
like a name.
Well, you saw what happened
in this immediately.
Hello is, hey, I'm expecting one argument,
not zero arguments.
Using server calls allow us to be
keep types as well as typesafe as we
can across this boundary.
So if I try and pass it like zero,
it's gonna be like, nope, not a number,
we wanna a string.
And essentially, we have this ability to
kind of type our arguments anywhere and
do these functions that literally
just run on the server.
And this is really powerful because,
it means we can do stuff like,
we can say this fetch API.
If I always wanna it to run on the server,
well, I could always run it on
the server and now it's that could
be a database call, or whatnot.
So when I run this in dev now what
you're gonna see, is that yes,
the initial page always
runs on the server anyways.
But now when we navigate, what you're
gonna see is instead of hitting
the specific endpoint the hacker news
endpoint I was looking at earlier.
We're actually hitting our own local
server with this kind of trumped up
URL here.
And that's kind of the power here,
with server functions you can have as
many as you want, in the same file.
And we generate a URL in the background,
and
you don't worry about
that wiring essentially.
So, the server function itself,
has a dot URL on it, if you need that for
the API you're using.
But generally speaking we
can use server functions
to basically declare as many route
fetches or actions as we want in a file.
So this a little clunky so
to make our lives a little bit
easier solid state actually has
this as a kind of first class API,
instead of create resource if you go
create route or server data let's see.
No, not that let's import it, and
it simplifies things a little bit and
essentially,
let's get here from this
create server data.
And swap over All right?
All right, sorry API's updated slightly.
We can pass into our the first argument
to a server function as always the server
function to make sure that it runs on
the client that's what the dollar sign
convention means.
So we just need to set this as our key,
and
Now We have the same
kind of working API and
it's a little bit slimmed
down it makes it easier.
So quite often with a lot of these
kind of a lot of loader type function
scenarios where you're just doing all
your data fetching on the client,
you're just gonna kind of go in here and
go, okay?
It's a kind of doing this song and
dance where there's
a whole bunch of extra
features from create resource,
you can simply just go create server data.
And then just return this and
essentially we can set our
key to this and
assuming that it imported import.
Create server data from solid start,
slash server, we now have for
our stories route as as well,
the same sort of API consideration.
Here, okay?
So this pattern allows you to basically
co locate database queries and
whatnot and
it all works with transitions and suspense